# Encryption

## Backup and Backup Copy Job Encryption

### What does it do?

Backup and backup copy job encryption is designed to protect data at rest. These settings protect data if unauthorized user gets access to backup files outside of the backup infrastructure. Authorized users of the Veeam console do not need to know the password to restore data from encrypted backups. Encryption does not prevent authorized Veeam users from being able to access data stored in backups.

### When to use it?

Backup and backup copy job encryption should be used if backups are transported offsite, or if unauthorized users may easily gain access to backup files in another way than by using the Veeam console. Common scenarios are:

-   Offsite backups to a repository using rotated drives
-   Offsite backups using unencrypted tapes
-   Offsite backups to a Veeam Cloud Connect provider
-   Regulatory or policy based requirements to store backups in encrypted form

Active full backup is required for enabling encryption to take effect if it was disabled for the job previously.

### Best Practices

-   Enable encryption if you plan to store backups in locations outside of your security domain.
-   While CPU usage for encryption is minimal for most modern processors, some amount of resources will still be consumed. If Veeam backup proxies are already highly loaded, take it into account prior to enabling job-level encryption.
-   Use strong passwords for job encryption and develop a policy for changing them regularly. Veeam Backup & Replication helps with this, as it tracks passwords’ age.
-   Store passwords in a secure location.
-   Obtain Enterprise or a higher level license for Veeam Backup & Replication, configure Veeam Backup Enterprise Manager and connect backup servers to it to enable Password Loss Protection.
-   Export a copy of the active keyset from Enterprise Manager (see [User Guide](https://helpcenter.veeam.com/docs/backup/em/em_export_import_keys.html?ver=95) for more information).
-   Back up the Veeam Backup Enterprise Manager configuration database and create an image-level backup of the Veeam Backup Enterprise Manager server. If these backups are also encrypted, make sure that passwords are not lost as there will be no Password Loss Protection for these backups.

## Tape Job Encryption

### When to use it?

Tape job encryption should be used any time you want to protect the data stored on tape from unauthorized access by a 3<sup>rd</sup> party. Tapes are commonly transported offsite and thus have a higher chance of being lost and turning up in unexpected places. Encrypting tapes can provide an additional layer of protection if tapes are lost.

If tape jobs are writing already encrypted data to tape (for example, Veeam data from backup jobs that already have encryption enabled), you may find it acceptable to not use tape-level encryption. However, be aware that a user who gets access to the tape will be able to restore the backup files. Although this user will not be able to access the backup data in those files, some valuable information, for example, job names used for backup files, may leak.

### Best Practices

-   Enable encryption if you plan to store tapes in locations outside of your security domain.
-   Consider the risks/benefits of enabling tape job encryption even if the source data is already encrypted and evaluate appropriately the acceptable level of risk.
-   Use strong passwords for tape job encryption and develop a policy for changing them regularly (you can use Veeam Backup & Replication password age tracking capability).
-   Store passwords in a secure location.
-   Obtain Enterprise or a higher level license for Veeam Backup & Replication, configure Veeam Backup Enterprise Manager and connect backup servers to it to enable Password Loss Protection.
-   Back up the Veeam Backup Enterprise Manager configuration database and create an image-level backup of the Veeam Backup Enterprise Manager server. If these backups are also encrypted, make sure that passwords are not lost as there will be no Password Loss Protection for these backups.

## Network Transport Encryption

Network encryption in Veeam Backup & Replication is controlled via the global Network Traffic options.

Whenever two backup infrastructure components need to communicate with each other over the IP network, a dynamic key is generated by the backup server and communicated to each node over a secure channel. The two components then establish an encrypted connection between each other using this key, and all communications between these two components for that session are then encrypted with this key. The key has a one-time use and it's discarded once the session is completed.

### When to use it?

Network transport encryption should be used if the network between two backup infrastructure components is untrusted or if the user desires to protect Veeam traffic across the network from potential network sniffing or "man in the middle" attacks.

By default, Veeam Backup & Replication automatically encrypts communication between two nodes if either one or both has an interface configured (if used or not) that is not within the RFC1918 private address space (10.0.0.0/8, 172.16.0.0/12, 192.168.0.0/16, 169.254.0.0/16). Veeam also automatically uses network-level encryption for any connection with Veeam Cloud Connect service providers. However, Cloud Connect establishes a TLS 1.2 encrypted tunnel to the service provider in a different way. 

### Best Practices

- Enable encryption if network-level attacks are a security concern.
- Network-level encryption can use significant CPU resources, especially on the encrypting side (source) of the connection. Make sure that component nodes have enough resources. Modern CPU's can offload encryption and reduce the amount of CPU resources required. For Intel CPU's specifically, you may check your CPU model on [Intel ARK](http://ark.intel.com/search/advanced/?s=t&AESTech=true) and look for the [AES-NI](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/AES_instruction_set) capability.

- Use network-level encryption only where required. If backup infrastructure components are running on a network that is using non-RFC1918 IP addresses but is still private and secure from attacks, consider using the following registry key to disable automatic network-layer encryption.
  -   Path: `HKEY_LOCAL_MACHINE\SOFTWARE\Veeam\Veeam Backup and Replication`
  -   Key: `DisablePublicIPTrafficEncryption`
  -   Type: REG_DWORD
  -   Value: 1 (_default: 0_)
